Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host, Ricardo Lopes, and today I'm
joined by Doctor Mona Simeon. She is professor of
philosophy and director of the Cognitive epistemology Research Center
at the University of Glasgow. And today we're talking
about her book, Resistance to Evidence. So, Doctor Simeon,
welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to everyone.
Thanks so much for having me.
So, let's start perhaps with a basic question here.
So, could you start by telling us what resistance
to evidence is, what it means and uh as
a philosopher, why do you think we need the
philosophical account of this sort of phenomenon?
Yeah, so I mean, I think that what's important
to note when you look in the landscape of
people resisting scientific evidence is that epistemologically it's a
very complicated landscape. So it's not the case that
everybody who resists scientific evidence is crazy, I guess
is what I'm saying. Um, SOME people, of course,
are doing it for, for no good reason. Um,
SOME people are doing it for, for bad reasons,
like, you know, from motivated reasoning. They just don't
like to believe that stuff, so then they don't.
Um, BUT some people, as a matter of fact,
are in a much more complicated evidential situation where
they find themselves not knowing exactly what to believe
because they get, they get contrary evidence from different
sources. So depending on what on your kind of
evidential environment, what, what evidence you have available to
you, what you know, your environment tells you is
the case, and, and so on, it may well
be that uh your rejection of scientific evidence is
not irrational evidence resistance, but this is a distinction
that is very often not made in. Uh, YOU
know, in mass media, uh, for instance, but also
not in research. So for instance, in social psychology,
the assumption has always been that there's gonna be
some, um, source of irrationality that explains this phenomenon.
So that's why I think a careful epistemological investigation
that is able to draw the relevant distinctions between
rational and irrational rejection of. Evidence is important. The
way, the way I use this terminology in the
book in order to, uh, you know, to, to
make the distinction clear, I call evidence resistance, uh,
irrational resistance to evidence, and I call cases in
which you reject evidence, uh, for good reasons, just
evidence rejections in order to signal that these two
are very different phenomena.
Mhm. Uh, BUT, uh, again, uh, the second part
of my question that I don't think you would
rest directly, why do you, do we need the
philosophical account of it? I mean, we could just
go with, uh, for example, a psychological account or
something like that.
Psychological, social psychological accounts are descriptive accounts. So these
are, this kind of important epistemological distinctions are normative
distinctions, right? So. Psychology doesn't know how to do
normativity. That's the kind of thing that philosophers know
how to do. So what they know how to
do is to describe what they see on the
ground. Uh, WHAT they, what they struggle to do
is to see the normative distinctions between two phenomena
that look exactly the same descriptively, but are normatively
different. So the example that I was giving you
was with, um, evidence, uh, irrational versus rational evidence,
right? So that is a. THAT is normative. RATIONALITY
is a normative phenomenon. If you just look at
what people do on the ground, you're not going
to be able as a psychologist to know whether
what they're doing is uh rational or irrational, um,
and this is exactly what we see when we
look at social psychological studies of this phenomenon. So
just to give you one example, um, the, the
most kind of popular or at least hot hypothesis
in social psychology is that. Uh, THIS phenomenon is
vastly generated by politically motivated reasoning that people reject
scientific evidence when it suits them because, uh, to
do so because it doesn't fit nicely with their
political identity. So you know, if you're a far
right person and part of your political identity is
to reject that climate change is happening, but to
accept that guns are safe, uh, no matter what
evidence you bring, the thought is these people are
going to reject it because. Of motivated reasoning. But
if you look carefully at the experimental setup, you
know, you notice that actually the claim is not
supported by, by the data on the ground in
that uh in these people that are tested, they
uh. They do have the relevant political identity, but
that is also correlated with, uh, reasons with, with
a vast amount of evidence that background evidence that
supports uh the relevant uh claim, right? So one
example is if you grew up in, um, you
know, in an American state where you've been told
since you were small that all kinds of reasons
to believe that guns are important for your safety,
you're gonna have. A lot of testimonial evidence that
guns are safe in a way in which me
in Glasgow, I'm not gonna have any of that,
right? So basically the way in which we're gonna
deal with evidence having to do with gun safety
is going to be rationally so very different because
we have different background, uh, evidence. And this is
the kind of stuff that social psychologists cannot, uh,
capture in their experimental setting without collaborating with an
epistemologist who understands the difference, um, between the two
types of evidential settings, basically.
So in regards to this type of phenomenon, I've
had on the show people like Hugo Mercier and
then Sperber, and they do work on the phenomenon
that they call epistemic vigilance. Does that relate in
any way to resistance to evidence or not?
Yeah, so in the book, I consider whether, uh,
that might be one way to explain what's going
on. So here is how that might, uh, that
might explain it. So what, what, uh, um, Mercier
calls, um, epistemic, uh, and Sperberg called epistemic vigilance,
um, they is basically this property that they stipulate
we have, um, and they, they think that. The
fact that, you know, that the stipulation is plausible
is supported by all kinds of phenomena, uh, whereby
we are good at filtering, they think, uh, you
know, bad from good testifiers, for instance, so that
we have, we have this kind of mechanism that
kind of filter, um, for defeaters as it were.
So for evidence that our testifier is not trustworthy,
right? And they think that that's what explains in
a way our success as a species because of
course we rely a lot on each other on
each other's testimony for the knowledge that we have.
So if we, their hypothesis is that, you know,
if we didn't have this vigilance mechanism, it is
a mystery how we would have succeeded as a
species given how much we need to rely on
each other. Uh, SO the, if you, if you
think this, uh, you know, faculty of epistemic vigilance
exists, one way that you might try to explain
what's going on is to say, well, look, uh,
our, uh, cognitive capacities have evolved in a very
different information environment than the one that we inhabit
right now, right? So they, they aren't evolved to
deal with this kind of high density, high choice
information environment that we are now inhabiting because of
the internet, right? Um, BECAUSE of that, they might
be, uh, malfunctioning, which is to be expected, uh,
you know, for any functional item that is moved
out of its normal conditions into abnormal conditions. So
you might think, well, we have this mechanisms for
epistemic vigilance, but those are working quite well in
a normal environment where our testifiers are like, you
know, people that we meet in person and we
can read maybe signs of this. ON their face,
uh, and we know whom to trust and who
not to trust because they have a particular social
profile that we're aware of. Uh, SO it's much
easier, as it were, to be vigilant, um, if,
uh, your testifiers are all kind of flesh and
blood people that you meet in the street that
you know about from your neighbors and so on.
It's much harder to be vigilant online where everything
is more or less anonymous, right? And the amount
of information coming at you is also hard to
process, right? So it's much easier to process one
or two testifiers uh every minute as you walk
down the street than the amount of stuff that
comes at you on the internet. So maybe what's
going on is that people don't know what to
believe anymore. So this kind of epistemic vigilance faculties
are misfiring, right? So they're, they're being, they're making
you skeptic when you shouldn't be because they just
don't know how to fire well anymore since they
haven't evolved to deal with this kind of craziness.
So that's what, that's one explanation, uh, that you
can give. Um, THE worry that I, that I
have, I mean, I have two worries for this
explanation. One is that again, it stipulates that um.
That everybody who does it is malfunctioning. Everybody who
rejects scientific evidence is malfunctioning, right? And that, uh,
that implies some widespread irrationality assumption which is very
implausible. Uh, WE are a very successful species, so
to think. I think given how well we're doing
in the world, to think that our cognitive mechanisms
are failing in this way on such a large
scale would be very surprising, right? Given how, how
much epistemic, uh, you know, resource we need in
order to be so successful, right? And but the
more important problem is that um a lot of
psychological studies suggest that actually we're very bad at
what they call vigilance. That even in normal settings
with our, you know, friends and neighbors, we are
extremely bad at detecting deception. Indeed we are basically
just a bit above average, so it's a, it's
a coin toss whether we detect deception or not.
So this is, we are, we think of ourselves
as being much better at detecting when someone is
lying or not and so on than we actually
are, as it turns out. Do is that always
true? No, we are much better at detecting deception
in contexts where we have a lot of information.
So when we know this person really well, maybe
finally we start getting used to the ways in
which they behave when, when they lie, or when
we have all kinds of other contextual contextual information
like, you know, we know that there's something fishy
about this person, we know that whatever they say
doesn't fit with whatever this other person says. Uh,
SO then we, we are good at detecting deception,
but that is to be expected, of course, because
that again is explained by the background evidence that
we have. So basically, given these two worries, I'm
thinking that the explanation in terms of our vigilance
mechanisms failing, uh, I think is not likely to
be the best explanation of the data.
So just to ask you briefly about the kind
of approach that you bring into your book when
it comes to resistance to evidence, at a certain
point, you say that you approach it through positive
epistemology instead of negative epistemology. What does that mean
exactly? So it's, it's a term that I borrow
and I, I'm grateful for from um uh Jonathan
Jenkins Ichikawa. So, so that. The tradition in epistemology
for 2000 years is very surprising to me when
you think about it, um, has been very much
focused on epistemic permissions rather than epistemic obligations, which
is not the case in other normative fields, right?
In, in morality, for instance, we care a lot
about obligations, right? So that's very strange that there
we would have a normative field where it, where
we don't discuss obligation, we only discuss permission for
2000 years and you might wonder why that's the
case. So, so here's what happened. People throughout history
of epistemology, very clever people, assumed that believing is
risky. So, you know, forming a belief is like
jumping, right? So like you're taking a risk, and
then they kept asking the question, when is it
safe enough to take the jump, as it were,
when do you have enough evidence? When are you
justified enough to take this jump into believing? And
you can see why, why people might think in
this way, prima facie, because you might think, well,
as soon as you believe you do a lot
of stuff with that belief, right? You start asserting
it, you start acting on it. So that's why
you should be really careful before you jump, uh,
the before for the belief. So this, this kind
of, uh, assumption led people to focus on, uh,
when belief is permissible, but not on when belief
might be obligatory given your evidential, uh, situation. Um,
SO for the, so in that sense it's a,
it's been a, you know, 2000 year history of
negative epistemology in that people have debated what restrictions
we should put on our believing, right, on our
forming beliefs. How should we restricted better such that
when we finally, uh, jump, it's safe to jump,
as it were. Um, I think that the, the
most recent phenomena having to do with evidence rejection
pointed out to us that we were wrong, that,
uh, the, you know, to only focus on problems
arising from jumping too quick, as it were. There
also problems arising for not jumping when you can
jump, uh, right? And that is, that is exactly
what, you know, phenomena like vaccine. Um, SKEPTICISM and
climate change skepticism has shown to us that sometimes
you should form your belief and go ahead and
act, go ahead and and get the vaccine because
you might die if you don't. Uh, SO, so
not forming the belief is hardly the safe option.
It's not safe, safer epistemically, it is not safer
practically, uh, your, your health will not benefit for
it. Uh, AND the same with, with, with climate
change denialism, right? So I think that very recent
phenomena in the landscape have kind of shown us
that that it was a mistake all along to
only focus on epistemic permissions rather than um obligations.
I also think that we have, you know, that
what this phenomena have helped us, theoreticians see is
that this was, this was completely unwarranted, this, this
focus on. Negative epistemology to begin with, because, uh,
when you don't form a belief, you form a
suspension, normally. That's what you do. You suspend belief,
right? A suspension is also a doxastic attitude, just
like belief. It's a kind of doxtastic attitude, but
it's still a doxastic attitude. So the assumption that
one particular doxasic attitude comes for free, that you,
that you, you don't need any evidence for it,
that Doesn't need to be properly justified. That was,
if you think about it, completely crazy all along.
Of course, a suspension is going to be a
good suspension, a permissible suspension, only if it fits
your evidence properly, just like belief. So I guess,
you know, it's one of those very interesting cases
in which the real world has informed the theory,
um, and has made it better for it, I
think.
So, we're also going to talk a little bit
about uh suspending uh judgments or suspending beliefs later
on in our conversation. But just before that, I
guess that there's also another important question to address
here. So, what is evidence? Particularly from a philosophical
perspective, what are some of the most common accounts
of evidence out there and how do you suggest
we should approach it?
Yeah, thanks for the question. So in this, this
project, this book was initially, it's an old project,
it hasn't started quite yesterday. The, the project started
in a way before the phenomenon of evidence resistance
became such a, you know, well known problem, uh,
publicly. Um, I was just trying to develop a
better account of evidence. This was a project about
evidence. That's all there was to it. And the
reason why I was trying to develop a better
account was because I wasn't satisfied with the accounts
that were available on the market. So of course
people in philosophy disagree about everything, so there's not,
there's not a lot of stuff that people agree
on. But here is something that you find with
very few exceptions throughout history of epistemology. Um, WHEN
it comes to what, what it is for someone
to have evidence, people tend to think that that
having of evidence relation refers to, in one way
or another, the evidence being in your head. So
that's what people believe in epistemology if you look
throughout history, that it's either you have the evidence
if, for instance, you believe it. So you, I
have evidence that there's a computer in front of
me because I believe that there's a computer in
front of me, or because it's, I'm justified in
in my, I have a belief and it's justified,
or because I know it. I have evidence that
there's a computer in front of me because I
know that there's a computer in front of me
and so on. Um. Or, uh, so these are,
you know, some doxastic accounts, but you can also
have an account that's not doxastic, doesn't imply belief,
where your evidence are your seemings. So whatever hits
my eye and generates a seeming as of a
laptop in me, that's my evidence that there's a
laptop on the table. Um, THIS is, you know,
it's not about having beliefs, but it's still in
the head, right? So the, the assumption is always
that as soon as you have the evidence, it's
got to be that it lies somewhere within your
skull, as it were, right? And that's an assumptions,
interestingly, that's shared by, by camps that are quite
opposite on all other fronts in epistemology. Internalism, externalists
share this assumption for the most part. Um, NOW,
here's what I found very strange about this assumption.
It doesn't fit at all with our folk conception
of having evidence. So if I talk to my
grandmother tomorrow. And she said, well, she said something
like, Well, why didn't you buy any carrots at
the market? AS I asked you to. And I
said, Well, I didn't have any evidence that there
were carrots at the market. And she would go
like, Didn't you see the carrots on the table
at the market? Well, no, because, uh, you know,
I, I just couldn't believe my eyes that there
were carrots at the market. So since evidence is
belief, I didn't have any evidence. That there are
carrots at the market. So I don't think my
grandma would be very, very, you know, satisfied with
this explanation. And now living my grandma's side, it
looks like even in legal context, we don't use
evidence in that way, right? So now imagine a
detective who's in the, who's taking testimony on the
stand and the judge asked them, Did you have
evidence that the butler killed the victim? And the
detective said, No, I didn't have any. Well, how
do you mean? Didn't you go to the, to
the, you know, crime scene? Didn't you see all
this stuff that suggested that the, the butler did
it? Uh, WELL, I, I saw it, but I
couldn't believe my eyes because the butler is such
a good friend of mine, and I couldn't believe
my eyes that he would do such a thing.
Again, I don't think that that's. When it would
be acceptable in court, so it does look as
though, you know, for instance, accounts that um that
take uh having evidence to having have to have
to do something with believing it, um, depart quite
abruptly from the folk, uh, conception, right? Um, AND
when it comes to seemings, the problem doesn't disappear
either. So we know for instance that our seemings
tend to be penetrated by all kinds of biases.
So you know, we perceive black faces as being
more dangerous than white faces, for instance. So we
get those kinds of seemings that are only sourced
in our bias. They're not justified in any way.
Um, SO one result that we don't want is
to say that as soon as you're biased, your
evidence, you have evidence that black people are, are
more dangerous than white people because that's clearly not
the result that you want, right? You need to
go back to the drawing board if that's the
result that your theory gets. So because of this
dissatisfaction that I had, uh, with extant extant accounts
of evidence, I thought, look, we need an account
that that doesn't place having evidence in your head.
Clearly having the evidence doesn't have to. Uh, THAT
you have the evidence in your head is just
something having to do with availability, right? If it's
very readily available to you, you have it. If
it's lying on the table in front of you,
you have evidence, right? Um, WHETHER you choose to
disbelieve it or not, it's, it's completely, um, uh,
irrelevant. So that's those are kind of the accounts
that exist in the literature very roughly, and that's
what motivated me to put together a new account
that is based on this notion of being in
a position to know. You don't need to know
these facts in order for them to count as
part of your evidence. You just need to be
in a position to know them, in a position
to basically take them up in your cognitive system.
And earlier in my very first question, and I,
I asked you why do we need the philosophical
account of resistance to evidence. You mentioned that uh
science, psychology, more specifically doesn't deal at least directly
with the normative aspects of this sort of phenomenon.
But what normative aspects of resistance to evidence do
you consider and what sort of normativity are we
talking about here exactly? Is it social normativity, moral
normativity normativity or some other sort of normativity?
Yeah, good. So, so one thing that people uh
have thought for a long time is something along
these lines. Look. When it comes to forming beliefs,
we don't have obligations to form them because we
don't have control over our belief formation. They just
happen automatically to us. I, as soon as I
see this laptop, I believe it's there, whether I
want it or not. And people for the longest
time, mistakenly in philosophy thought that an unrestricted version
of the following principle is true. What it implies
can. You cannot have an obligation if you can't
do it. And this sounds plausible. At first it's
a principle, notably put forth by Kant. But recent
results in ethics suggests strongly that it's the false
principle. And if we want the, I mean, there's
something true to it, but it needs to be
restricted, uh, right? For instance, just because I can't
treat, uh, women and black people well because I'm
a racist or, and a sexist, it doesn't follow
that I, it's not the case that I ought
to treat them well, right? So, so the, clearly
the principle is false. But because people believe this
principle and assumed it, they thought there was no
way there can be odds to believe something. So
then how do we Explain this resistance to evidence
and what's wrong with it. People thought, well, it
has to do with the breach of some other
type of normativity. Maybe it's a breach of social
normativity, so it can't be epistemic normativity that's breached.
It's got to be social or moral normativity. So
accounts in the literature, for instance. Uh, TRY to
suggest that what is going on is that we
inhabit a particular social role and because we inhabit
the social roles, the social roles come with social
obligations that sometimes are social epistemic obligations because you
know we all depend on each other for information
and. We can't really cooperate with each other unless
we do this kind of information exchange well, but
in order to do this information exchange, well, it
better be the case that we, you know, privately
as it were also do our information uptake well
because otherwise we're not going to participate in this
exchange, um, in a valuable fashion. So the thought
was, well, look, this resistance to evidence is not
epistemically problematic, but it is socially problematic because you're
going to, as it were, mess up with the
entire epistemic landscape when you don't take up the
evidence that you can and put them in the
common, um, as it were, basket of epistemic resource.
Um, SO that was one explanation that was offered.
Another explanation that was offered, look, it's just a
moral problem. And in this cases, so say the
case that I gave earlier where, uh, you know,
you have all the evidence in the world that
the, the, this black person in front of you
is smiling and is being very kind. But because
you're a racist, you have this this impression that
they look angry. uh, SO some, some epistemologists thought,
look, as soon as you seeming is in that
way, you're justified to believe that they're angry, but
so epistemically that you're doing nothing wrong, but morally,
of course it's bad because the reason why you
have this seeming is because you're a biased racist
person and being a racist is bad. Uh, SO
why you might think, why don't these two explanations
suffice? Why do we need to make it epistemic,
the problem, uh, like my account does it. Uh,
VERY quickly about the social explanation, the reason why
it doesn't work is because if you, if you
want to say that the only thing that's wrong
with this is social. The problem is that so
sometimes social norms are bad. Not all social norms
are good. To the contrary, most of them are
bad. So one thing that you don't want to
say is that as soon as the social norm
says something like, don't believe women. That makes it
OK not to believe women, right? So resistance to
evidence from women is socially OK. If it's also
epistemic, you're OK, OK, what's the problem? You know
what I mean? Um, SO that's, that's the social
problem, uh, as it were. The, the problem with
the moral explanation is, is even worse. So first
of all, because you can easily cook up cases
where it's morally, uh, actually good or even required
to resist this evidence. So I have a, I
have a case in my book. Uh, OF basically
partiality and friendship. So many people in ethics think
that we owe to our friends to be a
bit more skeptical about accepting, um, uh, evidence for
their wrongdoing as a person. Someone comes and tells
me that my friend just killed someone in the
street, I should be skeptical, right? No, my friend
doesn't do such a thing. Well, if they just
come and say the same thing about the stranger,
I should just say, OK. Um, SO, so if,
if that's true that we have a moral obligation
to our friends to be a bit more skeptical
when it comes to this kind of stuff, um,
then it would look as though there are cases
when resistance to evidence is morally good, but you
still want to say that it's epistemically problematic, right?
So remember the case of the detective that we
were talking about earlier. If the detective comes and
says, I didn't believe any evidence that the butler
did it because the butler is a friend of
mine, and I can't believe these things about my
friends, that's not a good thing epistemically, right? So
that's one very serious problem. Another problem is that
we know from a long history of ethics that
moral responsibility has an epistemic condition on it. So
if you are to be, for instance, blameworthy, you,
it better be the case that, you know, you
meet some sort of epistemic condition, otherwise you're going
to be blamelessly ignorant, right? So if you know,
if you did everything in your power to investigate
a particular topic and you still ended up with
a false belief, you're not going to be morally
responsible either because you did your job well. But
of course if there is an epistemic condition of
moral responsibility and we want to claim that it
is about moral responsibility, what this resistance to evidence
is, why it's problematic, then we're just, you know,
uh, getting back to the same problem because moral
responsibility implies an epistemic condition, so we still need
to answer the question, OK, what's epistemically wrong, uh,
as it were. So that's why there's two ways
of explaining the data is not, are not going
to work.
Mhm. So, let's talk now a little bit about
suspended judgment. That is something that you touched on
a little bit earlier. Uh, AND you mentioned the
examples of climate change and vaccination where, I mean,
there, there are two situations where perhaps people shouldn't
suspend their judgment very much because it has very
direct consequences to their health and now to Our
economy, environment, and so on. So, uh, but, uh,
are there situations where you think that it is
or it would be epistemically permissible for us to
suspend our judgment? What would be your account of
that?
So What I do in the book is I
consider all kinds of ways of accounting for what
it is for suspension of judgment to be possible
and in particular I distinguish between two things. First
of all, there's one thing to suspend the judgment,
and it's another thing to be completely neutral, which
are sometimes people don't care, don't talk much about
this distinction, and they don't make it clear what
the view is about one or the other. So
suspending judgment, um, you know, is, is just something
that you are permitted to do in cases in
which you don't have enough evidence to support full
belief, right? Go ahead and have an outright belief
that something is the case. So if you don't
have enough evidence for that, then you're fine to
suspend judgment, where suspension of judgment just means not
believing it. And so basically being in an attitude
of not believing, not fully believing. It's a completely
different story, what neutrality is, where neutrality is being
completely neutral of whether something is the case or
not. So being a fifty-fifty, as it were, right?
And why, why do I say this, that this
is very important? Well, because in, take the case
of vaccine, right? So many you would hear vaccine
skeptics very often saying things like, Look, there's a
lot of evidence that vaccines are safe, but I've,
I've seen some people saying the contrary as well.
So until I'm certain, I'm not going to take
the vaccine because I'm, I want to be certain
before I, you know, put that thing in my
body. Well, well, that's a mistake. So say, say
that you are in an evidential environment where you
have many, very many testifiers giving you misleading evidence
against the safety of vaccine, right? And then you
are, if these testifiers have a good track record,
you're right to trust them. You might be in
a situation in which you don't have enough evidence
available to you to fully believe that the vaccine
is safe. Scientists are saying that they're safe, but
then your family who are otherwise people that you
trust, and you trust for a good reason. They're
reliable, and so on. They care about you. They
say that there's something fishy about it, that they're,
you know, the scientists are motivated by some industry
funder and and so on, right? So. Maybe you
are in an evidential environment in which you don't
have enough evidence for full belief. So then it's
OK to suspend judgment. Here's what is not OK
is to be fully neutral, because that is only
OK when your evidence is really 50/50. So you
have, you know, exactly 0.5 on one hand and
0.5 on the other. And this matters because what
we need for action is not full belief. What
we need for action is just enough confidence given.
What, as it were, the value of the outcome
is to us. So let's go back to vaccines.
There's no, there's no option to do nothing. You
either go and take the vaccine, or you decide
not to take it and you remain vulnerable to
the virus. There's, there's no midway between these two,
right? So what you need to do now is
you look at the evidence for the vaccine safety
that you have and say that it's not in.
For full belief. In your case, it's not, I
don't know, say that full belief is a threshold
of 0.9 probability. Say that you are at 0.7,
so you, you know, you don't even have enough
for full belief. But, uh, you know, now think
about it. So you have 0.7 probability that it's
gonna be great. It's gonna be OK if you
take the vaccine, right? How much probability do you
have that you're gonna be OK if you don't
take, um, the vaccine, right? Uh, WELL, that's not
great, right? There's a lot of people dying without
the vaccine. So even in cases, I guess what
I'm saying, in which suspended judgment is justified, neutrality
is not justified, then if neutrality is not justified,
you still should go and take that vaccine because
you still have enough evidential support. To act and
go and take the vaccine. Uh, SO that's, that's
why I, I draw this distinction and I discuss
it in the chapter because very often you see
epistemologists focusing either one or the other depending on
whether they are formal epistemologists or they're more traditional
epistemologists. So I think that these two distinctions are
very important to the topic.
So in the book, you also address at a
certain point what you call their virtue responsibilist approaches
to resistance to evidence. So what are these kinds
of approaches and what do you think about them?
Yeah, so virtue responsib is, um, you might think,
on the face of it, has fantastic resources to
deal with the phenomenon because what they care about
are virtues and vices. Basically epistemic virtues and vices.
So things that, uh, are things like open-mindedness or
curiosity are. Supposed to be, uh, virtues and things
like dogmatists are, are supposed to be, uh, vices.
And the thought would be, well, this isn't resistance
to evidence clearly, just a case of dogmatist and
or a case in which this person is not
open minded enough. So, uh, doesn't that, isn't that
the problem? Um, SO, so the. You know, it
may well be that sometimes in these cases of
evidence resistance there are manifestations of these devices. It
may well be that the person in question is
a dogmatic person, um, and you know, you see
this, for instance, in cases in which, uh, so
we know from science that cognitive flexibility, so our,
in a way our open mindedness as it were,
decreases age. So, uh, that is one explanation for
why what you see is that people as they
Become older, they become more entrenched in their opinions
and harder to, you know, to move out of
their opinions. So, so you see that a lot
and you know one explanation for that can be
just epistemic. They gather so much evidence during a
huge lifetime for their beliefs that it's harder to
change now because it's harder to defeat that evidence.
But another explanation unfortunately is that with age we
all get less cognitively uh flexible, so we're less
open to to other people's views. Uh, AND you
might think, well, that's exactly the phenomenon that we're
looking for, right? Um, THIS, this person is less
open minded and more dogmatic because they have this
decreasing cognitive flexibility. So, so that's what's going on.
Um, UNFORTUNATELY this phenomenon doesn't, uh, need to happen
in people who are vicious and indeed. Again, stipulating
that everybody who resists scientific evidence is a vicious
cogniser is a bit much because it's, it's a
very well spread phenomenon. And again, we are a
highly successful species which implies that we are actually
quite good cognizers. So if we, if viciousness would
be so widely spread, we wouldn't be doing that
well. Uh, SO what in particular, what tends to
happen a lot is that perfectly fine cognizers, perfectly
virtuous cognizers make mistakes on a particular topic, right?
So let's go to the. The, the social psychological
explanations in terms of motivated reasoning. It might be
that you're a fantastic organizer in all walks of
life, but when it comes to things that affect
your political identity, you just don't reason well anymore,
right? You're going to believe all kinds of rubbish
just because you are, you know, you want to
preserve your political identity. But that doesn't mean that
you're a vicious cogniser in general because, you know,
this vices imply quite a lot of kind of
disposition to for failures, so you need to be
quite bad to be. You know, properly describable as
vicious, um, and it can also just be a
one off failure, and we want to be able
to explain that a completely unmotivated one will failure
this resistance to evidence. It might be that just
one off, I don't appreciate exactly the evidential situation
properly. So we are liable cognizers but not infallible.
So that just basically implies that we fail sometimes.
And when we do that. On just one occasion
we still want to be able to explain what
went wrong there and and to predict that something
did go wrong. But if our only resource is
to say, well, it was a manifestation of vice,
well, no manifestation by stipulation this is a perfectly
fine cogiter they just failed once. So that's why
I think that although prima facie it might look
like. But your responsibil has fantastic resources to account
for this phenomenon and to the contrary, it's um
it's gonna, you know, the, the danger is that
they're gonna predict too much viciousness in the population
in order to be able to account for all
this, the instances of this phenomenon.
So, uh, you also characterize in the book resistance
to evidence as an instance of input level epistemic
malfunctioning. Could you explain that terminology and particularly what
malfunctioning means in this specific context?
Yeah, so, uh, what my book says is, look.
Uh, WE need to distinguish between evidence resistance and
mere evidence rejection. Evidence rejection doesn't need to be
evidence resistance. It can just be perfectly justified, right?
If my evidential environment is such that it's populated
with a lot of misleading evidence against the safety
of vaccines, I am perfectly justified to reject the
evidence of its safety. It is it true that
it's not safe? No, of course it's not true,
but very, we are, as a matter of fact,
fallible cognizers and very often we are misled by
misleading evidence. And when that happens, we are responding
properly to this evidence because misleading evidence is evidence,
right? So when, when we are being misled by
it, it is a good reaction and a rational
reaction to go with this misleading evidence, and we
shouldn't try to change that because that's the normal
way to function epistemically, to respond to your evidence
because of course you don't know that it's misleading,
right? Um, SO, so, what I'm conjecturing, although of
course that is an empirical hypothesis, is that in
most cases of evidence rejection. What we have is
justified and rational evidence rejection because of this kind
of environmental problems. Of course that's not to say
that it's always the case. We know that there
are cases of evidence resistance, like for instance from
motivated reasoning. I'm not saying this case exists. All
I'm saying is that they're going to be much
more isolated, which makes it such that I don't
need to stipulate this crazy widely spread irrationality hypothesis.
But, but I still need to explain what's happening
in this isolated kind of cases, and what I'm
saying is, look, If proper fun the proper function
of our cognitive system, uh, includes proper evidential takeup.
So my, my cognitive system is not properly functioning.
If there's a computer lying straight in front of
me and I can't believe that there's a computer
lying straight in front of me, that something went
really wrong. Imagine how you would feel right now
if I told you, actually, not sure there's a
laptop right, right now in front of me. You'd
really think that there's something is going wrong, uh,
quite significantly. So my, the way in which I,
I think about this is our, our, some of
our bodily systems, as it were, uh, are input
dependent. So for instance, our lungs, uh, if they
don't take up, if there's oxygen in the environment,
readily available, and they don't take it up, um,
that is a sign of malfunction. Something has gone
wrong with our lungs. Similarly, I think our cognitive
systems, uh, are mal. Functioning if they don't take
up very easily available evidence, um, from the environment.
So there's nothing strange, as it were, about our
cognitive systems. Some, uh, of our systems are input
dependent in that way. If they don't take up
readily available inputs, they're malfunctioning. So in that sense,
it is an input level type of malfunction in
that when you are this kind of system that's
supposed to take up easily available something from the
environment and you don't, that is one way in
which you can uh malfunction.
So another topic that you address in the book
is uh defeat. So what does defeat mean and
how do you approach it?
So defeat, uh, defeat is a fancy epistemological term
for just evidence against something. Uh, WE always like
to have technical terms to pretend, um, that we're
serious. Um, uh, BUT what is interesting about defeat,
I think in particular when it comes to this
resistance to evidence phenomenon, is that it comes in
two, broad types of interest to us today and
simplifying somehow the phenomenon, but that's what's what's important
for us. Um, THERE'S a rebutting defeat and then
there's undercutting defeat. Again, very sophisticated technical terms for
actually quite simple phenomena where rebutting defeat is evidence
against a particular proposition. So the, the case is,
you know, you have, for instance, you have a
testifier that says that it's raining outside and you
have another testifier that's. IT'S not raining outside. So
this testimony, the second testimony is a rebutting defeat
to the first one because it affects, it's evidence
against the proposition that was asserted by the first
one, right? So the proposition is, it's raining outside,
and this is defeat, a defeater, uh, to, to
your evidence that it's raining outside because it says
it's not raining outside, right? Uh, SO the most
interesting for us type of defeat, however, is not
rebutting defeat that much, is undercutting defeat. So this
is a very pernicious sort of, uh, situation, uh,
that can, can lead to very widespread, uh, problems
in that this kind of defeat doesn't affect the
probability of the proposition for you, but it affects
the probability that your testifier, uh, is a good
testifier, right? That the probability that your source is
a good source. So what this defeater does is
it tells you your source is rubbish. So the
the case is one, for instance, where you have
a testifier that comes and says it's raining outside,
and you have another one who comes and says,
don't believe anything that George says because George is
a compulsive liar about meteorology, you know, um. So
the reason why this is a more dangerous form
of defeat is that it doesn't only affect one
proposition, it affects everything that George says from now
on, right? So if this person comes and says
he's a, he's a compulsive liar, you're gonna be
worried about everything that George says from now on,
right? So it's a much more problematic form of
defeat. Or you know, or good form of defeating
cases in which George actually is a compulsive uh
liar, but you can see how, you know, in
the, in the cases of interest here like vaccine
safety and climate change, it's the difference in, um,
as it were dangers, um, is huge. Between these
two types of defeaters because it's one thing, you
know, you have your evidence from the scientists that
vaccines are safe and climate change is happening, and
then, you know, we have a couple of people
telling you otherwise and you weigh these things against
each other and, you know, the evidence in favor
of the safety of vaccines and the climate change.
Uh, HAPPENING is hugely, um, you know, kind of
more weighty than the three people around the world
who deny these claims, right? So if that was
the only problem, I don't think we would have
a lot of rejection of scientific evidence because it
is overwhelming how much evidence there is that vaccines
are saved and, and climate change is happening. Unfortunately,
the way it works, um, if you look on
the ground is that. These people, the, the people
trying to deny these claims don't come and say
just vaccines are unsafe. They come and say don't
trust anything that. Uh, YOU know, public health authorities
say about vaccines because they have a vested interest
to sell you these vaccines to make some money
for the for the vaccine industry or they have
a vested interests to to generate this kind of
uh herd immunity. So even though they know that
it's there are some people for which the vaccine
is not safe, they're not gonna tell you because
they just want to generate herd immunity. So as
soon as this happens. No matter how many scientists
tell you that vaccines are safe, their entire testimony
is undercut because now you don't trust any of
them and you don't trust anything that they say.
You don't trust them on vaccines, you don't trust
them on climate change, you don't trust them on
anything anymore. So you can see how that's a
much more dangerous type of defeat, and you can
see it on the ground as well, because it's
very pervasive, right? This is the kind of discourse
that you hear. Don't trust scientists, don't trust mainstream
media. It's not so the evidence that the misleading
evidence that is brought in. On this policy relevant
topics of of high interest are very rarely actually
affecting the proposition itself. Vaccines are safe, so very
rarely, you know, would you see a far right
person coming and saying actually there's a study in
Nebraska where they tested this vaccine on, you know,
people. With, uh, blue eyes, and it turned out
that that that actually it's not safe for them.
No, what they come and say is usually don't
trust public health authorities because they're just trying to,
uh, you know, poison us all and, and in
order to, whatever, um, give some money to the
industry or something like that. So. So this is
the kind of defeat that is mostly problematic, and
what this defeat does, as I said, is it
decreases your probability for the trustworthiness of the source.
So that's how it becomes very problematic.
So, another thing that you also address in your
book is uh epistemic dilemmas. So what is an
epistemic dilemma and why does it, why is it
important for us to address it in this context
of uh resistance to evidence?
Yeah, so one, there, there's two reasons why we
need to talk about epistemic dilemmas if you write
this book. One reason is purely theoretical. As soon
as you postulate that there are such things as
obligations in a normative domain, you might get that,
right? Because permissions never generate dilemmas. If you're, um,
you know, if your norm says you're permitted to
jump in the lake, um, and this other norm
says you're permitted to go to lunch. No, you
know, whether you choose to jump in the lake
or go to lunch or to the country, do
something altogether different, none of these norms will be
breached, right? Because they just permitted. They don't ask
you to do it. When you have obligations, however,
if you have two that cannot be met at
the same time, they come in conflict, right? The
classic case is you have promised a friend to
go to lunch, but you encounter a child drowning
on the, on the way. So now, evidently you
need to jump and save the child. The more
obligation to save the child, um, takes. But at
the same time, you will have broken your obligation
to keep your promise to your friend. So, you
know, it's not a dilematic situation. It's just a
normative conflict situation in the sense in which it's
pretty clear which norm you should follow. You're not
kind of like, which one should I go with?
It's fairly evident. You should go with saving the
child. Um, BUT I guess what I'm saying is
that as soon as you have obligations, they might
come in conflict. And when they come in conflict
in a fashion where it's not really clear which
one is stronger than the other, like in the
case that I just described, you might be faced
with a dilemma. So, you know, as opposed to
what I just described with the lunch and the
child consider a situation in which you're on your
way to lunch. Now you have Two children drowning,
one on the left and one on the right,
and you still have the promise keeping to do,
right? So the promise keeping norm is completely overridden.
So that's, that's out the window. You're, you're fine
being late for lunch. But these two norms, you're
still left to them. One that says save the
child on the left, the other one says, save
the child on the right. Um, AND it seems
like you're in a normative dilemma because these norms
are equally strong, and no matter what you do,
you're going to break a norm, that's as strong
as the others, right? So the question is, well,
moral dilemmas we know about them, uh, because we've
studied moral obligation for 2000 years, but epistemic dilemmas,
we don't know enough about them. Uh, AND now
that you're postulating these obligations, we're gonna, aren't they,
we gonna get them all over the place in
the epistemic domain. And I guess what I'm saying
is, well, first of all, no, not that much.
I'm arguing in the chapter that actually epistemic dilemma
are not easy to come by because what's going
on in epistemology, um, is that you can always
suspend judgment. You don't need to either believe P
or no P or something like that. Um, SO
as soon as you have that resource, actually epistemic
dilemmas. ARE harder to come by. If anything, what
is maybe um easiest to come by is an
epistemic trilemmas and I, I give some examples in
the book. Uh, BUT I guess going back to
our phenomenon of resistance, so this is just the
the reason why it's theoretically interesting, but why is
it practically interesting for the phenomenon for evidence resistance?
Well, because very often you hear that people say
things like, I don't know what to believe anymore.
Uh, SOME people say vaccines are safe, some people
say they're not safe. I'm going to throw my
hands in the air and not believe anything anymore.
And I guess that, you know, what I'm saying
is, no, actually that situation where it's OK for
you to do that. Uh, SO one in which
you are faced by this epistemic dilemma, uh, when
it comes to, to believing or not believing something
is not something that occurs very often, um, so
it's not, it's not gonna be a problem. Uh,
USUALLY when people do this, uh, they do it
unjustifiably so it's not, it's not a phenomenon that
is, uh, well spread, basically.
So, uh, I have here two more topics that
I would like to ask you about. The first
one is skepticism. So, uh first of all, what
does skepticism mean in this kind of context because
I guess we could argue that there are different
kinds of skeptics out there. And uh is it
possible that at least in certain circumstances, in certain
situations, skepticism is also a form of resistance to
evidence.
Yeah, so I think, you know, sometimes skepticism is
warranted. So if you live in an environment in
which you have a lot of evidence that P
is false, skepticism about P is justified, right? And
of course this, this evidence may all be misleading,
but even so, it's evidence and you are supposed
to, you know, update your beliefs according to your
available evidence. So. It may well be that skepticism
sometimes is warranted, be it about vaccines or about
the existence of the external world, you know, whether
you're an epistemologist or someone who's interested in vaccine
uptake. Um, BUT I guess what I'm trying to
argue in that chapter is, uh, that what has
been assumed in the literature on skepticism, I mean
epistemology, which is that in a way, the skeptical,
the skeptic has the safe position because the skeptic
is just sitting there, not believing anything and wondering,
why should I believe that the world exists? Because,
you know, for all I know, maybe. It doesn't,
then my evidence is compatible with both and other
such motivations. What I'm saying is, no, actually you
have evidence that the world exists and you should
uptake it and believe that the world exists. So
I, what I'm basically arguing in the chapter is
that this assumption that skepticism is the safe position
and it is on us, non-skeptical epistemologists, to explain
to the skeptic why it's OK for them to,
you know, take the jump and believe that the
world exists, and so on. Um, IS exactly that,
that mistaken assumption that we had about suspension, right,
that that relies on the assumption that suspension is
the safe position, right? As soon as we discovered
that suspension of judgment is not safer than believing
that it also requires a warrant, we discovered that
the skeptic doesn't have anything on us because being
a skeptic also cannot be done without justification, I
guess, in a nutshell.
Mhm. Uh, SO, the last thing I would like
to ask you about is, uh, in the book,
you also talk about toward the end, um, about
misinformation and disinformation, which is something that people nowadays
are worrying a lot about. So, uh, taking into
account the main topic of the book, resistance to
evidence, uh, why do you also approach these questions
surrounding misinformation and disinformation and In what ways do
you approach them?
Yeah, the reason why I think that this topic
needed to be approached in this, in this book
is because the the these two phenomena, basically scientific
evidence resistance and disinformation and misinformation um are not
independent from each other. They, they have kind of
mutually reinforcing patterns. So what's going on is the
more disinformation you have or misinformation that you have
in your environment. The more misleading evidence you have,
uh, with the result that the more justified you're
going to be to resist scientific evidence, right? On
the other hand, As soon as you don't trust
scientists and expertise in general anymore, you're more vulnerable
to disinformation campaigns because you don't have any expertise
anymore to fall back on. So these are, these
are two phenomena that cannot be studied in isolation.
I think that the fact that they are currently
studied in isolation is a big problem and that
is going to hinder progress quite a bit. So
that's why I'm at the end of the book
I'm saying look let's let's look at the nature
of uh information misinformation disinformation in order to understand
how this mechanisms kind of reinforce each other evidence
scientific evidence rejection and disinformation. And one result that
I get is that again, so, so here's a
funny thing that's happening in this in this literature,
uh, for the longest time people all over the
scientific spectrum. Uh, WHO study misinformation and disinformation and
their kind of flow, um, use a dictionary definition
to do that, which is really funny. I mean,
especially, you know, in, in domains that are otherwise
quite critical philosophy included, that you would work with
the dictionary definition. I mean, you know, if we're
working with dictionary definition of knowledge or justification, we
wouldn't need epistemology anymore. And the dictionary definition of
this information, shockingly unsurprisingly, is false. So, uh, you
know, it's it's extremely anthropocentric because it's an old
uh definition and it gets it wrong. So the
way in which it's defined commonly is that it's.
Uh, KIND of false content that spreads with the
intention to mislead. That's roughly the definition that you
find out there. And Donel is my colleague Don
Felles from the US, did work a bit on
this and said, Well, actually it doesn't need to
be spread with the intention to mislead because surely
we, you know, machines can also spread this information
and that, you know, our word these days is
with 1, right? So it can, it can just
be that it's the function to mislead, not just
the intention, because machines maybe don't have intentions, but
they have functions. Uh, BUT that's about the only
work that we have on this information. If you
start working and think about it very carefully, uh,
first of all, importantly, this information need not be
false content, uh, and indeed, you know, I, I'm
a former journalist, and what we were taught in
journalist school is that disinformation campaigns are not best
done with false content because people are not that
stupid, you know, as I said, we're a highly,
uh, successful species cognitively. Uh, THE way in which
you do it if you want to have a
successful disinformation campaign is you do it with true
statements that imply a falsehood that implicate falsehood, right?
So you say you don't come and say climate
change is not happening. People are going to be
suspicious. You come and say something like there is.
Disagreement in science about climate change. Now that is
not a statement of course you can always find
a couple of crazy scientists in the middle of
nowhere in a village who think that climate change
is not happening, right? So the statement there is
disagreement, strictly speaking, all it says is that there's
at least one. Scientist in the world that disagrees.
So the statement is true, but when you hear
it on TV, what do you hear? You hear
there are vast and important and relevant amounts of
disagreement because otherwise you're thinking, why is it on
the news if it's only one isolated guy somewhere,
right? Uh, SO that is a pragmatic phenomenon. The
sentence that you utter doesn't mean that it's a
huge amount of disagreement, just means that there is
at least one person who disagrees, right? But what
the hearers here is not just what the sentence
means, it's also what it pragmatically conveys, and pragmatically
it conveys that it's a significant amount of disagreement.
Why? Because it's told on the news and it
doesn't make for a news item if it's just
one person disagreeing, so it's not relevant for the
context, right? And that's how you spread this information
cleverly, not by saying outright falsehoods. Now the problem
is that Uh, first of all, that's one thing
that we don't realize when we are rushed to
judgment to think that all these people rejecting scientific
evidence are completely crazy and irrational, because why would
they believe when they are told by a nobody
who's not a scientist that climate change is not
happening? Yeah, but that's not what's happening, right? It's
not, is not that they're falling for this kind
of blunt, uh, you know, in a way stupid
way of doing disinformation. No, they're falling for the
clever way of doing disinformation, and of course they
are because you're supposed to react to that pragmatic
in that way. That's the rational way to form
beliefs in that contex. Next, right? Um, SO, so
that's why it's important to have a proper definition
of disinformation because then we can see how very
often people reject evidence warrantedly because of the way
in which they're tricked by this kind of subtle
ways, uh, of disinforming. Another reason why it's important
is because we're trying to design good AIs, right?
So now we have the bad AIs who are
trying to spread disinformation. The good thing about that
is that we can, if we're clever enough to
make the bad ones, we're clever enough to do
the, do the good ones as well. Uh, So
what we need to fight LLM, disinformation is LLM
disinformation trackers. That's what we need because us humans
are not going to be able to fight uh
disinformation spread by LLM, um, but in order to
build an LLM that tracks this information properly, you'd
better know what it is because if we just
build it to track falsehoods, it's not gonna track
this kind of very dangerous disinformation. Um, CAMPAIGNS that
use this kind of pragmatic mechanisms that I that
I mentioned earlier. So that's, that's what they do
in the chapter.
Uh, BY the way, since you mentioned journalism and
you also refer to the fact that you don't
like the standard definition of this information because it
implies that it has to be intentionally spread with
the intent of generating false beliefs or something like
that in other people. I guess that's another good
example of exactly that would be when sometimes on
TV for example, they do debates between And a
climate scientist, expert, and another climate scientist expert who
is actually a science denier, and they present them
on an equal playing field. And then, oh, we're
just going to do the debate. It's for the
viewers to decide, uh, and I mean, no, it's
not for the viewers.
I have, I have previous work on, on this,
that that is a problem. Um, AND it's very.
People to see the problem and there is a
lot of empirical literature that shows that that way
of doing it generates a lot of false beliefs,
and I want to say rationally so because what
you're suggesting by bringing one testifier that says that
P and one testifier that says that non P,
you're generating an evidential situation that's 50/50. So you're
it's rational to be neutral under those circumstances because
the way in which these people are presented is
as though they have equal evidential standing. Now what
I want to say in defense of my colleagues,
the journalists is that for the longest time, you
know, journalism is, is, in some countries is kind
of, you know, officially regulated more than in others,
but if you look at kind of the on
the ontological codes that regulate journalists, they tend to
have this kind of 5 or 6, you know,
principles that should, should guide the activity. Of journalists
and the problem with these principles more often than
not is that they include two principles that often
contradict each other. So one principle is the reliability
principle that says, you know, do whatever you can
to, to, you know, report the truth rather than
not, right? So that, that's good, um, but then.
There is this kind of alleged objectivity or fairness
principle where you're supposed to bring people from all
corners of the debate and present them as you
just as you just suggested. And what is sometimes,
and everybody thinks these two principles are in conflict
because people think, you know, if there's 3 positions
out there, you need to bring one for, for
each and every one of them, right? Um, BECAUSE
otherwise it's not fair. But of course you know
that only person A is telling the truth. So
the principle of reliability tells you don't bring person
B and C, just bring only person A. Uh,
I think that that's, you know, it's a problem
with those principles, and they should be revised, but
I also think that there's a bad, that is
a bad interpretation of what the fairness or the
objectivity principle should say. I think the fairness, it
is the fairness and objectivity principles. Should give as
much exposure as the probability um of being right
uh is so you know, I mean sometimes topics
are complicated, you know, you, you know that you,
you don't really know where the truth lies, right?
So there are going to be people who argue
that P is the case and people who argue
that non P is the case, and you as
a journalist you're going to have a set of
evidence and your set of evidence suggests that this
that P is 0.7 probable and non P is
0.3, where that's the kind of exposure that you
should give if you're a truth searcher, you should
give an exposure that is, uh, you know, that
has the same weight as the evidence that you
have for the truth of P. IF you want
to still follow the, the reliability principle. So I
think that in a way, all I can say
about my colleagues, the journalists is that it's not
only that they're making a mistake, it's also a
mistake that is warranted by the best the ontological
codes that we have right now and which they
need to be revised, uh, very substantively.
Mhm. Yeah, I, I mean, I brought up that
example also because, uh, in that particular case, at
least it doesn't seem to me that if this
information is generated in those cases, it is intentionally
done, right? I mean, I don't think that there's
any journalist out there bringing on a science denier
just to intentionally mislead to the contrary.
And my colleagues indeed are very worried that they
have to do that, and they do it because
that's what the the ontological code says. And I
bet that who, you know, whoever this, uh, uh,
this, the, the fathers and mothers of this the
ontological code that, that put this the ontological code
together back in the day also had very good
intentions. Um, YOU know, probably they were living in
a simple, a simpler epistemic environment. I would, I
would suggest where this kind of norms would make
more sense. Um, SO in, indeed, most of the
time this kind of this is exactly what happens,
but I want to say that even with the
exact the, the example that I was mentioning earlier
with that there's disagreement in in science about climate
change, look, this, this pragmatic phenomena are studied in
speech act theory, which is a scientific field and
which most. People don't study and particularly in journalists
nobody teaches you uh speech act theory that much
so the fact that this pragmatic phenomena are generated
are not things that your regular journalists should be
aware of. So if I come on TV and
I say there's disagreement in science about climate change,
when what I mean by that is that there's
just 11 guy disagreeing. Uh, I cannot be blamed
for generating the pragmatic phenomena that I just generated
because I'm not aware of how these mechanisms work
because I haven't studied this field. So that's why
we need a bit more knowledge exchange from science
towards practice because it's not the job of the
journalists to know about, you know, Gri and pragmatics.
It's the job of the scientists to come and
inform, uh, the field and explain how these mechanisms
work in order to make for better the ontological
codes for journalists.
Mhm. So just to wrap things up and perhaps
to just summarize this last bit about this information,
uh, could you tell us about, uh, then your
account of this information as ignorance generating content? What,
when you get rid of the dictionary definition, you're
not left with much because we just got rid
of the intention, we got rid of the falsehood.
So what is, what is it that we're left
with? Uh, SO, so stepping back, looking at all
these possible ways in which you can, um, run
a disinformation campaign, what, what this way suggests is
that what they all have in common is that
they generate ignorance in the audience. You can do
that. Via many ways by saying something false or
by saying something true that has a pragmatic implicature
and so on and so forth, but what all
these ways of generating this information have in common
is that they have a disposition to generate ignorance
in your hearer. And it's important to understand that
because as soon as we understand that we also
realize that whether some content is disinformation or not
is highly hearer dependent. The exact same content asserted
in one context is going to generate a lot
of false beliefs asserted in another context is going
to generate no false beliefs, depending on the evidential
background of the audience. And in We already know
that disinformation campaigns are targeting particular audience groups because
they know that they're particularly vulnerable in virtue of
their evidential background. So just to go back to
the disagreement says about climate change, if I watch
a journalist saying that, I'm not going to follow
the first belief that there's a huge amount of
disagreement because I know how speech act theory works
and I know that the journalist is just making
a mistake. If that journalist comes on TV and
tells my grandmother the same thing, she will probably
uh get this uh false belief because she's not
a specialist in speech act theory. So it's important
that we understand that what whether content is this
information depends on the background evidence of the hearers,
because that also explains why some people are, you
know, more vulnerable to this, to some particular disinformation
messages and thereby end up rejecting scientific evidence. Well,
some people aren't. That's a, you know, something that's,
let me give you an example of how important
it is in the real world. So Public Health
Scotland. When they communicated, uh, the safety, the safety
of vaccines, they just did it the same with
all audiences, so they sent us all a little
flyer that said vaccines are safe, come and get
them. Um, THAT was, that was all they did.
Now of course we have very different evidential backgrounds
around here in Scotland because they're very diverse people.
So for instance, the same flyers sent um to
white communities generated 87% or something vaccine uptake sent
to African and black communities generated only 40%. uh
VACCINE uptake the same message. Why? Different evidential backgrounds.
The black community has a, you know, a lot
of inductive evidence of discrimination from, from the public
health authorities, which, you know, I don't. They also
have a lot of background evidence of lack of
trustworthiness of institutions more uh more generally and institutional
ignorance again, I don't have that problem, so it
is highly surprising that I trusted the flyer more
than they did. Um, SO in that, in the
same way in which Public Health Scotland, uh, failed
to kind of tailor their message to the evidential
background of the audience in the same way if
you want to spread, um, spread this information, you
can tailor your message to the audience's evidential background
and target the more vulnerable, um, communities. So that's
why it's important to understand that what matters is
the ignorance of the hearer rather than what is
actually written on the flyer. Mhm.
Great. So, the book is again resistance to Evidence.
I'm leaving a link to it in the description
of the interview and Doctor Simeon, apart from the
book, would you like to just tell people where
they can find you and the rest of your
work on the internet?
Yeah, so if you Google me, you're probably going
to come across my, uh, my website and my
university, uh, web page and where I have, um,
a bunch of, um, drafts and PDFs of my
papers if you're interested in more detail about my
work. Um, AND the book in good news is
open access with Cambridge, uh, due to very generous
grants from the European Research Council. So if you
want to read the book, you don't need to,
um, go ahead and buy it, but you can
just go on the Cambridge website where you can
find it open access.
Yeah, like I did. So and I'm very grateful
for that. So, Doctor Simeon, thank you so much
again for taking the time to come on the
show. It's been a real pleasure to talk with
you.
Thank you so much for having me. It's been
great. Thank you.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Nights Learning and
Development done differently, check their website at Nights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters
Pergo Larsson, Jerry Mullern, Fredrik Sundo, Bernard Seyches Olaf,
Alexandam Castle, Matthew Whitting Berarna Wolf, Tim Hollis, Erika
Lenny, John Connors, Philip Fors Connolly. Then the Matter
Robert Windegaruyasi Zup Mark Neevs called Holbrook field governor
Michael Stormir, Samuel Andre, Francis Forti Agnsergoro and Hal
Herzognun Macha Joan Labrant John Jasent and Samuel Corriere,
Heinz, Mark Smith, Jore, Tom Hummel, Sardus France David
Sloan Wilson, asilla dearraujuru and Roach Diego Londono Correa.
Yannick Punteran Rosmani Charlotte blinikolbar Adamhn Pavlostaevsky nale back
medicine, Gary Galman Sam of Zallidrianei Poltonin John Barboza,
Julian Price, Edward Hall Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco
Bartolotti Gabrielon Corteseus Slelitsky, Scott Zachary Fish Tim Duffyani
Smith Jen Wieman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georgianneau,
Luke Lovai Giorgio Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Wozin, David
Williams, Diocosta, Anton Eriksson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie
Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, bungalow atheists, Larry D. Lee Junior,
old Erringbo. Sterry Michael Bailey, then Sperber, Robert Grayigoren,
Jeff McMann, Jake Zu, Barnabas radix, Mark Campbell, Thomas
Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Storry, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert,
Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brandon, Nicholas Carlsson, Ismael Bensleyman. George
Eoriatis, Valentin Steinman, Perkrolis, Kate van Goller, Alexander Hubbert,
Liam Dunaway, BR Masoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular John Nertner,
Ursulauddinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsoff Sean Nelson, Mike Levin,
and Jos Net. A special thanks to my producers.
These are Webb, Jim, Frank Lucas Steffinik, Tom Venneden,
Bernard Curtis Dixon, Benedict Muller, Thomas Trumbull, Catherine and
Patrick Tobin, Gian Carlo Montenegroal Ni Cortiz and Nick
Golden, and to my executive producers, Matthew Levender, Sergio
Quadrian, Bogdan Kanivets, and Rosie. Thank you for all.